---
title:       "From Pain to Peace"
indent:      true
dark:        false
date:        2014-05-13
author:      "Carol Small"
tags:        ["tag1", "tag2"]
---

When we identify with our feelings and thoughts as who we are, we get caught in
a recurring cycle of pain. Peace comes from questioning our beliefs, facing the
destructive pattern, and replacing it with the truth.

## A story

A man came to see me with the complaint that his partner did not want to have
sex with him enough. He was convinced that if he could get his partner to
connect with him more, he would be happy. He explained that when his partner did
not want to connect, he was fine on his own, but, he said, “why be in a
relationship?” When he came to me he wanted to figure out a way to get his
partner to be more sexual, but in learning to Be Free we used the story as
evidence of his own beliefs and when we clear the feelings attached to the
story, the glue that holds the story together becomes unimportant or totally
goes away.

It can be useful to recognize the pattern. Howard’s partner, Jane, was not the
first lover to deny him sex, nor the first person in his life to be withholding
and uncommunicative. He had been abandoned time and again, which showed me that
He was self-abandoning. There was a pattern or thread that ran through his
stories, but for a while, Howard was convinced that if we just got Jane to
change one little bit, both their lives would be perfect. Howard is not alone in
his thinking. We all try to fix the people around us so that they can give us
the love and appreciation we need. But when they slip up for a minute, when they
can’t be manipulated, when we can’t replace them fast enough with a better
version, our sense of safety disappears because it was built on an illusion.
Those people were supplying proof that we were okay, that we weren’t needy or
weak or abnormal, but our negative beliefs about ourselves cannot be out-argued,
out-smarted, or convinced in any way. No matter how successful we are, they lurk
underneath, waiting for the slightest ripple in the circumstances of our lives
to seep in and fill us with pain.

Howard’s statement that he was fine on his own is a defensive strategy that had
been around so long that it was a believable part of his story. What was his
story and who was he in reality?  It was just a part of programming and not him
at all. Everyone he knew would describe him as self-sufficient and strong,
almost arrogant. But again, this is part of the smokescreen of programming
personified.

He was militant in his belief that he deserved a partner who would have lots of
sex with him. Howard came to recognize that a lot of his “strength” was bluster
protecting a negative belief, the scary and humiliating belief that he was
needy, and that being needy made him unlovable. The belief was so
life-threatening to him that he made himself relentlessly strong and
independent. His defense, his story, had made a life of its own and called
itself Howard.

Our beliefs are so believable to us that we develop personality defenses that we
identify as “us.” We never allow ourselves to question that the beliefs we hold
and the wounds we feel are not ourselves but only a balloon full of hot air, a
conglomeration of data and programming. Dissolving the lie (illusion) in the
midst of a resistant ego is tricky business. We begin to recognize the
explanations and hurt feeling and the trying to prove to ourselves and others
that the defended personality is indeed true (“I can take care of myself."). We
begin to notice and allow what is felt. Now we know that no story is true, yet
you would be amazed at the intense desire to keep the status quo and the misery
attached to it intact.

Facing the defeat of our defensive strategies can be scary and painful. We would
rather do just about anything. Some people are willing to die in order not to
let them go. Now we discover that the way out is through them. By facing them
and the defeat of our carefully composed and defended selves, we can come to
know our core self, who we really are, and feel safe.

One consequence of directing our attention to the outside is that we abandon
ourselves. As we learn to allow what is to be as it is, letting the false self
dissolve and the core self emerge, we become self-referred, centered, and free.

It is actually by opening to these well-defended feeling of sadness, pain, hurt,
abandonment and loss and a multitude of other emotionally charged feelings that
they can loosen their tenacious grip that keep us repeating the patterns that
keep us trapped. The way out is to feel these well-guarded feelings and notice
we want to fix and manage and take them to be who we are. We relax and feel. We
open and love the parts of us we have given away. It only takes a moment to
stop, and feel, open and allow what is gripping the body and I promise you will
be amazed how fast you end the cycle of pain in your life.
