---
title: "Resting in awareness vs. constant pendulum swing"
date: "2014-12-03"
---

Hi Carol,

I'm very curious and interested in this fabulous idea of email support.  What
does that look like?  Cuz I'm needing some!

xxoo

Karin

Action Items

You say, 'Mooji, Mooji, help me to get rid of this ego-identity.  I just want to
be nothing.'  But the one who is going to let go of this ego-identity is who?
Who is this 'I' who could possibly do it?  Even this one you are not. Don't do
anything at all. Don't lift even a finger for this. What is here now? 'Nothing,'
you say. Don't doubt this nothing. You are this nothing. Be nothing, happy and
free.

Anthony Paul Moo-Young /ˌmuː ˈjʌŋ/, known as Mooji /ˈmuːdʒi/, (born 29 January
1954) is a spiritual teacher or guruoriginally from Jamaica.\[1\]\[2\] Moo-Young
was a student of Papaji who was a direct disciple of the advaita and
non-dualmaster Ramana Maharshi. Mooji has called his relaxed philosophical
approach, "the lazy man’s way to enlightenment"

From Karin

Well, lovely Carol, it's kind of the same old story.

Much to my surprise, I find myself once again battling that well-spring of
wanting, this time attached to a woman.  Truly, a surprise to me.

The difference ... I've told Lars.  He, understandably, is going through a whole
host of experiences, partly it's a re stimulation of past traumas,  part is fear
and many other things too.

Me, I'm trying to stay present, trying to remember to release  the wanting
rather than feed the wanting with my very active mind.  It's a challenge, no
doubt.

So, there you go!

One thing I've remembered often, "What if this is exactly what is supposed to be
happening!"

Would love your wisdom.

Love,

Karin

Ok, I am just going to spill what is coming up.  Don't take it for gospel, it
will lead to more but for now I see that you are married to Lars.  Do you want
to be married to Lars or are you staying because you don't know how to leave,
for the children? What has been coming up all day is this split. You are the 3d
expression of it.   Simply put, over stimulate, under stimulate. Retreat to Lars
and move into over stimulate.  Lars is withdraw and other lovers are leave for
out there. The part of the equation missing is presence, the unknown moment to
moment. You use the world. Object referred.  Trapped by world or over expressed
in world.  Yearning for man or woman doesn't matter. Or held back by world or
Lars. World is all outside. It defines you. Going out in both directions. It is
retreat or over stimulate. Back and forth and back and forth.

I go out to be with Rick or some sort of outrageous over the top adrenalin
marathon and then become so over stimulated that I retreat, kick him out of my
life and withdraw.  Same thing.  The appeal of neither are forefront now... To
rest in the unknown and just see both of your other extremes as playing out
programming but are not an example of one or the other lives to live. It is late
and this doesn't make that much sense....laughing....still get the culmination
of this which is...Lars is retreat mode and this new relationship is adrenalin
city.  Back and forth your life goes. Neither are you.  Both are programming.
They hold very little meaning.  One is over stimulate and the other under
stimulate.  YOU rest and are aware of both and rest and allow both. Wait and let
stillness have it's way with you.

That's a start.  Whatcha think?

Yes, Carol, brilliant.  Retreat ... over stimulate, Retreat ... over stimulate.
It's like a constant pendulum swing moving with its own momentum, back and
forth.  Somehow I believe that I can make it stop, figure it out, do something
to fix it into a solid, manageable state. Ha!

Resting in the awareness and allowing of both, just reading those words is
deeply settling.  It's like a release valve for my over-achieving, trying to
figure it out side.

I'm taking that wisdom into my dream state.

Oww, thank you Carol.  I like this very very much.

Hopefully it's helpful to you, too.

Sweet dreams ...

xoo

Karin
