---
title: "Inspired Support – E-Mail Conversations With Carol"
date: "2015-04-08"
---

Candy: Well, lovely Carol, it's kind of the same old story. Much to my surprise
:) I find myself once again battling that well-spring of WANTING, this time
attached to a woman. That part truly a surprise to me. The difference...I've
told my husband.  He, understandably, is going through a whole host of
experiences, partly it is a re stimulation of past traumas, part is fear and
many other things too.

Added note from Carol (This was his own messengers he needed to get the
message.) Me, I am trying to stay present, trying to remember to release the
wanting rather than feed the wanting with my very active mind.  It is a
challenge, no doubt. So, there you go! One thing I've remembered often, "What if
this is exactly what is supposed to be happening!" Added note from Carol
(Everything happens exactly in the perfect way to recognize our reflections and
bring freedom.) Would love your wisdom.

Carol: Okay, this is what is coming up to say as I get quiet and listen.
Interesting this is the 3d time this came up today, marveling at my own
reflections.  Simply put, over stimulate, under stimulate. Both ways to avoid
being Present. Retreat to your husband to control feelings of not feeling safe
and under stimulate then move out to your lover that overstimulates to save you
from boredom, provoke wanting to be loved and safe from an outside source.
Notice the missing part of the equation. Presence with what is, and resting in
the unknown and trusting the inside source. Switching back and forth keeps the
story going, the story and egoic control of "Candy" the expression of the past
and future.  This moment if allowed and gone through, there is stillness and
contentment and satisfaction. That is the death of the game...... so to keep
going is very seductive.  When you have had enough of the suffering then we
stop. Feel the feeling that has been avoided, in this case fear of not being
safe. Stop the game by being still and allowing the power of Presence to unwind
the pattern and be Peace, that which you were looking for in the outside world
that is here inside all along.

Candy: Okay, I would like to practice this allowing with you. Lets have a
session soon.  What is a good time?
