---
title: "What is True?"
date: "2015-12-23"
---

I was inquiring into a family member’s beliefs the other day and they were
telling me that they thought that the body was all we were and that when the
body dies so does the “person”.   I thought, well maybe the personal part may
die, I don’t know and that wasn’t the most important point, from my perspective.
What makes up a person? Past memories, feelings, thoughts, that are constantly
changing, programmed to circulate. Same for the body that is constantly
changing, sloughing off old cells and making new ones.

All our held onto situations and reactions to our thoughts. All this change is
what life seems to be about. We face one change after another and either we flow
with it or we resist but we don’t ever win because change is inevitable. Most
people fight change, the way of life, trying to keep things static and avoiding
change is a favorite pass time, (no pun intended for those who see time can only
exist as past and future) and causes all our suffering. The past and the future
monopolize most of our waking experience.

What came to me after that discussion was how people don’t usually look; I mean,
really look to see what is true and instead, mostly by how we are programmed,
our perspective and propensity to believe one way or another is what takes up so
much of life experience. What if it was woven into our world to question, to
look and not blindly even believe science, in which the finest of double blind
studies are altered by personal bias, or another person’s experience and someone
else’s point of view. What if we trusted our inner wisdom and really checked?
Might we find something very interesting, **the part of us that doesn’t
change**? It is obscured for sure. Clouded over by past and future, what was and
what could be.  Feelings and thoughts are so loud and invasive it is hard to
move away the clutter and just wait and look. The present moment holds the key.
Right now, what is here that doesn’t change?  What has been here since the day
we were born and up until now that unless we look in the mirror doesn’t change,
doesn’t age, it just is?  I take for granted now sometimes the recognition of
who I am beyond thought, memory and feelings, or an aging body.  I am this life
force that is shared by all living things, rocks, trees, animals and plants. It
helps when I feel pain or have a strong feeling to have some distance because I
am that which doesn’t change, however all _situations_ do change.

What to call it, a soul or spirit.  All definitions fall short and are not true.
 I make it my life’s mission to help those who want to know the truth of who
they are and to rest in that vast, open, love that can’t be touched by anyone or
anything.  This is the new therapy as I see it. We first look, recognize for
ourselves. It seems so simple, "Oh, is that me, just that?"   "Really?"   "Is
that all?" " So ordinary, so...... just me, what’s all the hullabaloo about?"
Well, the amazing thing about that ordinary finding is that suffering can
finally take a back seat to awesome joy, love and reverence for life as it is.
That which doesn’t change is very restful. We all have feelings, thoughts and
memories but notice, just for one quiet moment, what is that me that is always
there that has never changed.  Waking up to who we are is both, ordinary and
extraordinary.
