---
title: "Map to Sanity"
date: "2016-05-20"
---

To Whom It May Concern,

I woke up this morning inspired to write about a Chinese term Gongjing.
Cultivating this state has been probably the single most important find of the
century.  Gongjing incorporates CALM, trusting, open, loving, humility, respect
and reverence for life.  It replaces all the defensive patterns that mess with
our relationships with others and ourselves.   It replaces wanting and brings it
back to our natural state of HAVING, BEING and enjoyment of what is versus
looking at what is wrong in life.  We think that in order to create change that
we have to rail and fight against what is, tightening and resisting, fixing and
complaining. Remember the little Chinese torture toy? If you pull your fingers
apart in resistance you get stuck, but relax and bring your fingers together and
the little paper toy releases your fingers and you are free.

Has it become a habit to FEEL our feelings to the point of indulgence? Endlessly
express our point of view to the point of the absurd.  Doesn’t it just further
exhaust our reserves and prolong the suffering? Crying, expressing, wanting to
be heard and understood and maybe if we get enough agreement about the current
plight in life we will somehow solve it?  YIKES!  Starting with a state of
Gongjing and resting as that natural state solves the very problem we were
trying to figure out by running it into the ground with endless expression or
endless silent resistance depending on your inclination.

There are a few tricks to cultivating this state of Gongjing.  When the first
sign of discomfort arises there are ways like tapping the points of the forehead
and temples and cheekbones and then the tapping moves to the chest, all across
the chest until there is a release and a deep breath that dislodges the glue
that attaches the feeling to the cause of that feeling which is a thought gone
rogue.  You can also roll down first your head and then your neck and roll down
the whole spine and then slowly roll up. For a moment relief is available. If
you can get calm enough and release the feeling instead of go into it you can
identify the thought and see it for what it is, a trigger of a long held
misguided pattern that has repeated over and over like a broken record.  That
thought has to be faced and replaced with Gongjing. Trust has deeper and deeper
meanings as the word is explored and implemented. Try this way and see if
actually facing instead of defending and explaining is a real way to actually
change long held patterns that have kept our lives less than joyful, a state we
deserve, our natural state of comfort and fulfillment.

One last thing…..see what can happen if this is adopted instead of endless
seeking for making ourselves feel  better with approval seeking, need for
endless control and striving and striving for safety and security and
contentedness.  The state of Gongjing is the ultimate experience in
contentedness and connectedness.  I would love to hear how this is supporting
your life and bringing peace to your world.
