---
title: "The Experience of Gongjing"
date: "2016-05-20"
dark: true
image: "img/water-872016.jpg"
tags: ["Yuan Gong", "Ren Xue"]
---
To Whom It May Concern,

I woke up this morning inspired me to write about a Chinese term Gongjing.
Cultivating this state to its fullest can be very rewarding.  Gongjing
incorporates calm, trusting, openness, love, gratitude, reverence, humility, and
true respect for life.  It replaces all the defensive patterns that mess with
our relationships with others and ourselves.  It replaces wanting and brings it
back to our natural state of having, being and enjoyment of what is versus
looking at what is wrong in life.  We think that in order to create change that
we have to rail and fight against what is, tightening and resisting, fixing, and
complaining. Remember the little Chinese torture toy? If you pull your fingers
apart in resistance you get stuck, but relax and bring your fingers together and
the little paper toy releases your fingers and you are free.

I sometimes think it becomes a habit to feel our feelings to the point of
indulgence? Or is the intent to express our feelings in order to get rid of them
and give them to somebody else who doesnâ€™t want them either. We struggle, never
yielding our deeply held position, obdurate to the end. Starting with a state of
Gongjing and resting as that natural state removes the need for agreement or
seeking our worth in our deeply held beliefs, leaving us more able to catch the
next trigger that is in need of clearing.

There are a few tricks to cultivating this state of Gongjing. Qigong is my
favorite way, but we can also at the first sign of discomfort arises use these
ways to bring a state of peace. First allowing instead of resisting what is
happening. I like tapping the points of the forehead and temples and cheekbones
and then the tapping moves to the chest, all across the chest until there is a
release and a deep breath that dislodges the glue that attaches the feeling to
the cause of that feeling which is thought gone rogue. You can also roll down
first your head and then your neck and roll down the whole spine and then slowly
roll-up. Ask me how to do Squats. For a moment relief is available. If you can
get calm enough and release the feeling instead of going into it you can
identify the thought and see it for what it is, a trigger of a long-held
misguided pattern that has repeated over and over like a broken record.  That
thought has to be faced and replaced with Gongjing. Trust has deeper and deeper
meanings as the word is explored and implemented. Try this way and see if
actually facing instead of defending or explaining is a real way to actually
change long-held patterns that have kept our lives less than joyful, a state we
deserve, our natural state of comfort and fulfillment, the state of Gongjing.
