---
title: "Doomed to a lifetime of being abandoned by the people I love?"
date: "2016-04-06"
draft: false
tags:
    - My Work
---

{{< img class= "fill" src="/img/carol-and-harper.jpg">}}


This has been inspired by one of the sweetest girls on the planet. She asked
this question and I think it is such a universal question that I thought I would
devote my next writing to its exploration. She asked **_why do I always get the
short end of the stick. Am I doomed to a lifetime of being abandoned by the
people I love?_**

Feeling abandoned or rejected and left out can be a very painful experience. The
very nature of falling in love, the romantic kind of love...falling is not an
exaggeration of the agony and ecstasy of love. Then there is the parent/child,
friendships and sibling type of love and then the kind of power we give over to
someone we aspire to emulate. This is more admiration than love but still a
platform where we have a tendency to self-abandon for the expected bliss of
connection with “other”.  Abandonment is simply a reflection of self-abandonment
and more easily addressed that one would suspect.

## **Experiencing Abandonment**

It doesn’t seem to be popular thought that if we are experiencing abandonment
that we look to first our relationship to ourselves. We may think we have full
self-referred lives, but a closer look may reveal how quickly we abandon our own
self-connection when the prospect of connection with another comes into our
field of awareness. It seems that the warmth and comfort we find in the arms of
another is what we long for, but consider that longing does not actually exist
when self-connection is at its best. The pattern of self-abandonment is replaced
with self-love, confidence, self-appreciation, and inner contentment which
brings such a fulfilled peace that connection with another becomes a reflection
of that self-love and not the other way around that connection with another can
fill an empty inner place.

{{< img class= "lfloat" src="/img/clipped-carol-and-ocean.jpg">}}

Trying to get fulfilled from being what we think others want us to be,
abandoning our true self, is a dead end. The world can only give us what we give
ourselves. Try looking into a mirror and not liking how your hair looks and
tapping at the glass to get the hairstyle changed.  Not until we first change
our own hair on our head will the reflection in the mirror show us what we want
to see.  The world seems real, but it will only reflect our thoughts, our
beliefs, and our perceptions. If we keep seeing the same distortions through our
programming that is faulty we will keep having the same experiences that cause
us to suffer.  To me, that is enough reason to put in the effort to face, deal
and replace our repetitive dysfunctional patterns.

_Notice in nature that a tree gets its nourishment from the ground and the rain
and sun that gives the life force.  How long would that tree last trying to get
nourishment from the leaves of another tree?_

We can relate to being like the ocean, large and vast in our true self, but
limit ourselves to needing one more cup of saltwater and our perception shrinks
to ignoring who we really are. In our shortsightedness, we yearn and grab and
need grasping for what we already are, but if we could stop, wake up and relax
into that quiet calm, the incessant wanting and realization comes in on its own
that we ARE ENOUGH and the comfort of that can lead to the deep comfort of
sharing life with loved ones.

I love to watch those that are willing to transform these old patterns of
desperate longing into a calm peaceful, expanded love for life on Its own terms
and trusting that it is trust itself that sets up a life of fulfillment.