---
title: "Pity has no place in my reality"
date: "2016-01-18"
tags:
    - My Work
---

## Pity….a poor, maybe empty replacement for love

It has come to my attention how many examples I have noticed lately of the
demonstration of pity, feeling sorry for the plights or the challenges that we
all face, as a way to show love for each other. How can our added misery help
anyone?  How many times have we expressed our, maybe even over dramatic
demonstration of pity, thinking we are showing our love and concern?

A friend expresses a difficult time and we think we help by taking on a sad
demeanor and a show of pity. _“That is just awful, I am sooooo sorry.”_  How
helpful is it really to see them as a victim and powerless over their
situations?  Do we think they won’t feel loved if we don’t demonstrate how
“Poor” they are? Will we not be perceived as caring and supportive?

By maintaining our own sense of inner connection and strength we can demonstrate
a more neutral acceptance of what is, and the calm, centered present mirror can
demonstrate how much more resilient and willing we can be to take life on its
own terms. We welcome the way that life shows itself and even trust what comes
our way as exactly what we need to ensure the deepening of our character and
building of a strong sense of **Self**.

Do we become bitter or grow with life? Do we quit and say poor me? Or do we get
stronger and persevere, learning about how love is way more than we ever could
have realized? What do we want to share with those we love?  To trust that our
loved one can handle and potentially become empowered by the situations that
come their way may actually be a better way to show our love.  It is OK to trust
in their ability to handle and grow with life experiences JUST the way they are
and just how they come.

I have come to believe that life is infinitely kind and powerfully accurate in a
mathematically precise way.  Can we really know what is in our best interest?
**Just maybe there are no mistakes.** It has not been easy for me to trust
life, but the more I do the more I enjoy that love is powerful, accepting and
neutral, and pity has no place in my reality the deeper that I delve into the
mystery, the very powerful, loving, awesome mystery of life. I am grateful for
all my life’s experiences and the result is a deep inner love beyond my wildest
dreams. This acceptance.....must be bliss!

By Carol Small
