---
title: "Guided Meditation"
date: "2017-03-29"
tags:
    - tips
---

**Your boyfriend is disappointed, and you feel so horrible that you would do
anything not to face the feeling inside you. Try this meditation and feel the
relief.**

### Unglue

Start by relaxing the whole body, relax the head and the neck, allow the
shoulders to drop down, open the chest and slightly pull up the back, relax the
abdomen and lower back, the hips and legs.  Feel the feet. Bring the awareness
into the body and feel the emptiness and spaciousness within.

Expand that awareness out becoming one with the universe.

Bring the awareness back to the body, calm and peaceful.  Open to the universe
with reverence and appreciation and gratitude.  Let the universe nurture the
heart with **compassion and love**.  Feel the flow of this expanded peaceful,
joyful place inside.

Now, from this expanded place of awareness, watch the way you felt when your boy
friend was disappointed. Rather than managing or trying to change the feeling of
dissapoinment, you have to face this feeling now. Stop trying to manage and
change and fix that feeling by making sure you never disappoint anyone. Notice
how personal this feels. You think you ARE the feeling, when you are the
watcher.

Often times, we self abandon in order to make others feel okay. The main thing
is that you don't disappoint yourself by leaving yourself for anyone else.
 Feelings come and go and who you are doesn't change, it stays the awareness.
Identify as that **awareness** and notice what happens to the feeling.  Watch it
dissolve as you dis-identify as it.  The glue that holds that identity in place
can dissolve now.

Now from this perspective watch when your boyfriend is disappointed.  What is
your response to him now?  You say,  Yes, I see you are disappointed.  You are
finally able to have some compassion that is for him instead of making him feel
better so you don't have to feel a feeling.   Now that you faced that feeling
you can replace it with love, compassion and trust that taking care of yourself
is a safe thing to do.
