---
title: "Overcoming Childhood Trauma"
date: "2018-02-06"
draft: false
image: "/img/river.png"
tags:
    - My Work
---

A student was feeling hopeless when confronted with how much trauma happened in
her childhood and asked how to come to terms with what seemed overwhelming.

Let me try to answer your questions the best I can.

Yes, your experiences and difficulties will be largely the result of your
imprinting and past programming, so what to do with it now you ask? Just because
the feeling is strong doesn’t mean the thought clearing process has to be
difficult. What is needed is objectivity about thoughts and feelings. Once the
feeling is detached from the thought it isn’t nearly as believable. There are
several ways to detach from the grip of the feeling that makes the thought so
believable. The trick is to change being run by our feelings that come from
robotic thinking.

**The first thing we need to transform is our perceptions and learn how our
problems can be used as our next opportunity for growth.** To begin welcoming in
the automatic and repetitive thoughts that plague the mind. The thought you
have, I am damaged goods, causes a feeling which is icky and feels hopeless and
shrinking of person, but it is just a feeling. Start seeing feelings as only
indicative of the thought that is no longer useful, not as something to fix or
seek out an answer or solution in the outside world. When the mind has its
rapid-fire…let it.  Don’t fight it.  Be curious about it as objectively as you
can. Stand back and watch the mind do its thing. Say, look at my mind, it is
very busy. Make that shift from thinking to sensing the sensations in the body
objectively. Sensing quiets the mind. See if you can let go of fixing it at this
stage. As you watch and allow, the mind will quiet down if even for a moment,
long enough to notice it is very familiar, what is the thought that has gone
unquestioned? Welcome it. Looking at it in this way will lead to more clarity
about what you are saying to yourself about your situation.

_I wasn’t treated fairly so I will always be damaged by that._ Well... that
thought may now be seen as something of which you may not want to use to create
your future. Power is in the present moment, out of the past and future. The
present moment creates the future. The only place we receive the support of
nature. That is important to remember. This is how to avoid dragging the past
into the future to see the past as gone and relish the present moment of
observation. So at this moment replace the old painful thought with trust,
openness, love, gratitude, and deep respect for all things. Let those thoughts
create your future, and a calm, confident life. Learn to trust yourself, trust
how the world works and since you trust yourself you can begin to trust others.
The closed heart is the reason for stress, anxiety, overthinking, feelings of
separateness, and devastation. It doesn’t create the safety your mind would like
you to believe. The effects of the even worst childhood can be restructured but
it takes work, or a mindset to watch instead of BE the thoughts. Then replace
the old destructive mindset with an upgraded thought process. It takes courage
to identify, face, and replace those old seductive patterns.

Love, Carol

{{<rawhtml>}}
<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7QMdT02TVnQ?start=165" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
{{</rawhtml>}}

## Contact me and we will unwind your old beliefs

{{<contactform>}}
