---
title: "The Art of Non-Resistance"
date: "2020-08-12"
indent: true
author: Carol Small
image: "unnamed.jpg"
---

Learning to not resist is definitely an art form.  It is easier to not want to
feel pain and loss.  We are surely a pain-avoidant pleasure-seeking species. It
isn’t easy to trust what comes our way as only for us and not against us. It
takes a broad perspective indeed.

Let me know if you would like some support with this art form. It has many
rewards that far outweigh the discomfort of facing what we feel with a calm
respectful observation.

The first step in the art of non-resistance is to notice you are feeling
resistant. That isn’t always easy to spot. It takes practice. At first, it is
recognized after the fact. You will look back and say, I was so resistant to
feeling that, I just wanted it to go away and I didn’t want to be open to that
feeling. Then soon you will feel the tightness in the body and begin to allow
it. You may ask yourself, “Can I for just a moment accept this resistance?”
Maybe even be attentive to it like you would a friend that is having a bad day.
Curiosity replaces avoidance. That is the beginning of the end of even the
deepest disturbance.

The next step is to treat the discomfort with an alert, thought-free
observational presence. After you begin to experience the proof that it really
does allow it to pass through the opening, space gives it the freedom to release
itself. Trust builds and before you know it you are a pro at the art of
non-resistance. Trusting, meeting it with openness, and living differently from
the most popular and common ways to experience what shows itself in life.
