---
title: "Self-Realization"
date: "2020-08-12"
indent: true
author: Carol Small
image: "meditation-3338549.jpg"
---

Self-realization transforms everything. To learn how the false self with all
it’s pre-formed dogma and it’s robotic rhetoric controls most everything we
think and do. It appears we have free choice but how free is that choice if most
everything we do is programming stemming from our imprinting and learned
beliefs.

Is your name really who you are? Someone named you, so who were you before your
name? You just were, you just are. Before programming, we are a clean slate. I
suppose that is debatable since if you believe you live through many lives,
maybe some of that programming moves through with you?

Those discussions are fun but not necessary to wake up from false programming to
realize the True Self. This is when true choice begins. When we realize we are
more than the content of our lives. We are the paper the writing is on. We are
the canvas on which the painting appears. We are the part of ourselves that
never changes but stays there through the coming and goings of thoughts,
feelings, memories, and conditions. The realization of that quiet observer is
the real power that brings freedom from pain and suffering.

We will work to remove, bit by bit the programming of the false self to reveal
the true self the part that brings comfort, acceptance, and love in the most
unconditional way.

It is rarely observed that writing is not possible without the paper. Imagine
this white paper. Write a bunch of stuff on the paper. All that writing obscures
the paper, the true self, but as you dissolve the writing on the paper the paper
is more realized as the necessary component to the writing itself. Our work is
to remove the patterns of the false self revealing what is already there, the
sun behind the clouds.

The added component of self-realization is true freedom and the root of the
peace that surpasses all understanding.
